Many years before I was born, in an interview he gave in 1995, Steve Jobs
famously said: “Everybody should learn how to program a computer – should learn
a computer language, because it teaches you how to think.” I could not agree
with it more strongly: software engineering is, without doubt, the most
exciting thing I know. Having discovered it at the age of 10 by learning Pascal
at my school’s extracurricular programming club, within just a few months I had
rapidly progressed from the obligatory “Hello World” to writing my own version
of the 1970s classic arcade game, “Space Invaders”, complete with an adjustable
shooting angle and custom game mechanics.

As my school in Saint Petersburg specialised in Maths and Computer Science, I
had ample opportunities to continue to develop and hone my abilities. At first,
I focused on the challenge of learning the fundamentals of C; although my
initial progress was slow and hard-won, I gradually came to terms with its
syntactic rigour and later continued to build on this foundation by studying
object-oriented languages like C++ and Java. In consequence, I implemented an
AVL tree from scratch, solidifying my grasp of recursion in the process, to
then use my newfound understanding of binary trees in Huffman coding. By using
the OpengGL API I also designed and animated a functioning 3D vehicle to extend
my knowledge to other CS fields.

Coming to the UK last year to continue my education had allowed me to focus on
the subjects relevant to my future career choice. A-levels in Maths and Further
Maths gave me a new perspective on the familiar concepts, such as learning the
relevance of probability distributions and statistical expectations to data
compression. Teaching myself modules of Decision Maths, I discovered and
implemented Graph Theory algorithms (e.g. Prim's and Kruskal's) in Python to
reinforce my knowledge in practice. Finally, I was able to write dynamic
simulations of global economic markets by combining my knowledge of
mathematical models and A-Level Economics.

Like every great technology, computers also give their users unique ways to
misuse them. Watching a documentary "The Social Dilemma" made me consider the
downsides of an interconnected global society, which lets big tech companies to
collect and trade personal data to shape public opinions and gain more profit.
To investigate this further, I read "Free Software, Free Society" by Richard M.
Stallman, which introduced me to the world of Free and Open-Source Software.
This became the topic of my EPQ, "Linux: an OS you control", in which I
demonstrated how by meticulously decomposing every action undertaken in the OS,
it becomes possible for a user to control the system, instead of the system
controlling the user.

I always strive to grow my knowledge of coding and the algorithms involved
therein. "Behind Deep Blue", a book about the AI that defeated the world chess
champion in 1997, encouraged me to enrol into a two-week summer course on AI at
the University of Oxford, where I studied different types of machine learning
and the fundamentals of constructing a deep neural network. The books like
"Clean Code" by Robert C. Martin and Andrew Hunt's "The Pragmatic Programmer"
have given me valuable practical advice, drastically improving the quality
of my code, making it more concise and efficient. Last summer, a two-week
internship in a Swiss digital currency investing firm Euratek GmbH, showed me
the challenges of dealing with the inherently volatile cryptocurrency markets,
and the importance of effective software solutions to mitigate the
unpredictability thereof, giving me invaluable experience as a result. 

I believe that physical and mental health are intertwined, highlighting the
essential nature of keeping active no matter the academic workload at hand. I
played tennis for 7 years and have 4 years of MMA experience. I greatly enjoy
volunteering, having recently coordinated a fundraiser, “Night Walk for the
National Autistic Society”. Not to mention that I was appointed to the position
of the Digital Innovator in the Student Council. This has given me a great
opportunity to help out the college by, for example, administrating and
improving a local rewards system "Epraise".
